play is a vital building block of bonobo
relationships it's so important that
they continue to play as adults and
that's unusual in the animal kingdom
but bonobos do something even more
surprising to demonstrate that we found
ourselves a little volunteer and in the
name of science we're going to
scientists have only recently discovered
that laughter is not unique to humans a
cat laughing just like us for bonobos
laughter is a form of communication and
what laughter is doing it's a signal
that tells other individuals I want to
continue playing with you I want to
continue interacting with you in humans
for example conversations that have
laughter lasts longer if we share about
of laughter we feel bonded we still
relax it really is a booster to that
internal motivation like yeah this is
wonderful let's keep doing it
play is a safe way to test the
boundaries of a relationship and that
helps to build an incredibly tolerant
society
right Ljuba now
oh my god we lost the
that they don't even
in the wild play makes all the
difference
while gyms can be extremely aggressive
towards each other but no bows generally
seem to get along
we have never observed this el
aggression
we've never upset Ivanova kill another
bonobo and that is very special that's
very different because that happens in -
busy's and that happens in other
primates as well another thing that
makes bonobos different from every other
great ape is that their society is run
by females their approach to leadership
involves a strict make love not war
policy
adult bonobos have very open
relationships which involve a lot of sex
it's a win-win situation males don't
have to fight for female attention and
with so much physical contact
everyone is much more relaxed
but is there any more to it than that
can we go as far as saying that the
bombs involved love depends what you
mean by love
if you mean human like romantic
monogamous love no I would say no now if
you mean the core of love which to me is
about protection and is about the
physiological machinery of love I don't
see why we wouldn't call that love